# BC Route Planner
# Glossary of Terms
Term | Definition
----: | -----------
<a name=best route>best route</a> | The route found by the route planner that best meets the constraints specified by the input parameters of a given routing request.
<a name="betweenPairs">betweenPairs</a> | A request to get the distance and travel time between all pairs of fromPoints and toPoints.
<a name="copyrightNotice">copyrightNotice</a> | Copyright notice applicable to all responses of the BC Route Planner API.
<a name="copyrightLicense">copyrightLicense</a> | Copyright license applicable to all responses of the BC Route Planner API.
<a name="correctSide">correctSide</a> | If true, the route starts and ends on same side of road as start and end points. Default is false.
<a name="criteria">criteria</a> | Routing criteria to optimize. One of shortest or fastest. Default is fastest.
<a name="dataProcessingTimestamp">dataProcessingTimestamp</a> | A timestamp indicating when the data was last processed (e.g., 2023-12-18T23:05:54Z)
<a name="departure">departure</a> | The departure date and time in internet timestamp notation as defined in RFC 3339, section 5.6 (e.g., 2019-02-28T11:36:00-08:00). This parameter will be ignored if time-dependency is disabled.
<a name="directions">directions</a> | A structured sequence of turn-by-turn directions including notifications.
<a name="disable">disable</a> | Disable optional routing features; A comma-separated list of modules. See the description below of 'enable' for a full list of parameter values. Enable takes precedence over disable. When the enable parameter is used, unlisted values will be disabled.
<a name="disclaimer">disclaimer</a> | Legal disclaimer of the BC Route Planner API.
<a name="distance">distance</a> | Length of the best route found (in distanceUnit units).
<a name="distanceUnit">distanceUnit</a> | Unit of measure used by distance property. Allowed values are km (kilometres) and mi (miles). Default is km.
<a name="excludeRestrictions">excludeRestrictions</a> | A comma-separated list of restriction IDs. When provided the individual restrictions will be excluded from the route.
<a name="executionTime">executionTime</a> | Request execution time in milliseconds.
<a name="enable">enable</a> | Enable optional routing features; specified as a comma-separated list of feature codes which are as follows. Enable takes precedence over disable. When the enable parameter is used, unlisted values will be disabled.<br><br>**td** – time-dependency including honouring route start time and time-dependent turn-restrictions<br><br>**tr** – turn restrictions including no-left, no-right, no-straight-through, no-U-turn; time-dependent turn restrictions only work if td is enabled too<br><br>**tc** - turn costs (e.g., left turns take longer than right turns)<br><br>**xc** - crossing costs (e.g., crossing a major road on a minor road takes longer than the other way around)<br><br>**gdf** - global distortion field; applies friction factors to road segments by ITN road class and vehicle type; this makes major roads more attractive than minor roads.<br><br>**ldf** - local distortion field; applies friction factors to specific road segments based on transportation line ID (TLID) and vehicle type.<br><br>**tl** - Include transport line IDs for the route in the response<br><br>**sc** – ferry schedules; only works if td is enabled too; only suitable for demos since it uses dummy data<br><br>**tf** – historic traffic congestion; only works if td is enabled too; only suitable for demos since it uses dummy data<br><br>**ev** – road events; only works if td is enabled too; only suitable for demos since it uses dummy data<br><br>The default value of enable is gdf,ldf,tr,xc,tc.
<a name="fromPoints">fromPoints</a> | A list of origin points in geographic coordinates (lon/lat). Commas are used to separate coordinates and points as in the following list of two points: -124.972951,49.715181,-123.139464,49.704015
<a name="height">height</a> | The height of the truck in metres.
<a name="length">length</a> | The length of the truck in metres.
<a name="listRestrictions">listRestrictions</a> | Include a list of all restriction IDs impacting the direction of travel along the base route. Default is false.
<a name="maxPairs">maxPairs</a> | Maximum number of (from,to) pairs to return for each point in fromPoints. pairs are selected in nearest to farthest order. For example, given 1 fromPoints, 10 toPoints, and maxPairs=1, betweenPairs will return the pair with the shortest distance or fastest time.
<a name="notifications">notifications</a> | A structured sequence of notifications.
<a name="outputFormat">outputFormat</a> | Format of representation. Allowed values are json, html, and kml. Default is json.
<a name="outputSRS">outputSRS</a> | The EPSG code of the spatial reference system used to state the coordination location of a named feature. It is ignored if KML output is specified since KML only supports 4326 (WGS84). <br><br>Allowed values are:<br>**3005:** BC Albers<br>**4326:** WGS 84 (default)<br>**26907-26911:** NAD83/UTM Zones 7N through 11N<br>**32607-32611:** WGS84/UTM Zones 7N through 11N<br>**26707-26711:** NAD27/UTM Zones 7N through 11N
<a name="partition">partition</a> | A list of comma-separated criteria for partitioning best route. Criteria include  isTruckRoute, isFerry, locality and ownership. Partitioning allows a client application to control the styling of truck route, non-truck route, and ferry route segments of the best route. It also provides a list of localities and road ownership.
<a name="partitions">partitions</a> | A structured sequence of partitions of the best route using partition criteria defined by the partition parameter.
<a name="points">points</a> | A list of origin point, any number of waypoints, and destination point in visiting order. Points are specified as X1,Y1,...Xn,Yn where X and Y are values in the projection specified by the 'outputSRS' parameter. If no outputSRS is given, X is treated as longitude and Y is treated as latitude.<br><br>Here is an example:<br>-123.707942,48.778691,-123.537850,48.382005<br><br>To make a round trip, just add the start point as in:<br>-123.707942,48.778691,-123.537850,48.382005,-123.707942,48.778691
<a name="privacyStatement">privacyStatement</a> | Privacy statement associated with the BC Route Planner API.
<a name="restrictionSource">restrictionSource</a> | Specify the source of road restrictions. Default is ITN. <br><br>Options include:<br><br>**ITN** - Integrated Transportation Network.<br><br>**RDM** - Restriction Data Manager (**Note that the RDM option is only suitable for demos**).
<a name="restrictionValues">restrictionValues</a> | A comma-separated list of restriction types and their values (**Only suitable for demos**).<br><br>If the parameters height, width, length and weight are provided but the restrictionValues parameter is not, those values will be translated into VERTICAL, HORIZONTAL, LENGTH and WEIGHT-GVW. If values are provided for both the vehicle dimension parameters and the restrictionValues parameter, only the restrictionValues parameter values will be used.<br><br>**VERTICAL** - Height in metres (e.g., VERTICAL:4.5).<br><br>**HORIZONTAL** - Width in metres (e.g., HORIZONTAL:3)<br><br>**LENGTH** - Length in metres (e.g., LENGTH:8.2)<br><br>**WEIGHT-GVW** - Gross vehicle weight in kilograms (e.g., WEIGHT-GVW:35000)<br><br>**WEIGHT-1AXLE** - Single axle weight (e.g., WEIGHT-1AXLE:10000)<br><br>**WEIGHT-2AXLE** - Tandem axle weight (e.g., WEIGHT-2AXLE:10000)<br><br>**WEIGHT-3AXLE** - Tridem axle weight (e.g., WEIGHT-3AXLE:15000)<br><br>**NCV** - No Commercial Vehicles (e.g., NCV:1)<br><br>**NSI** - No Self Issue (**not implemented**)
<a name="roadNetworkTimestamp">roadNetworkTimestamp</a> | A timestamp indicating the road network data vintage (e.g., 2023-09-29T21:28:38Z)
<a name="roundTrip">roundTrip</a> | true if a route should end back on its start point; false otherwise.
<a name="routeFound">routeFound</a> | true if a route that visits origin, all waypoints, and destination has been found; false otherwise.
<a name="route">route</a> | Geometry of the best route found; represented as a structured sequence of points.
<a name="routeDescription">routeDescription</a> | A short description of the nature of the requested route. This will be echoed in the returned route representation for use in your application. <br><br>For example:<br>Fastest route from 1002 Johnson St, Victoria to 1105 Royal Ave, New Westminster
<a name="searchTimestamp">searchTimeStamp</a> | date and time request was processed.
<a name="simplifyDirections">simplifyDirections</a> | Combines driving directions that include short segments with a different name, and no turns, into the enclosing continuous, same-named directions, e.g. Short bridges, overpasses, or tunnels that interrupt continuous travel on a highway. Default is false.
<a name="simplifyThreshold">simplifyThreshold</a>|The default distance threshold to simplify directions is 250 metres. Segments that are longer than this value will remain in the directions. If simplifyDirections is false, this value will be ignored.
<a name="snapDistance">snapDistance</a> | The maximum distance (in metres) away from the road that a point can be located within and still find a route. Default is 1000.
<a name="srsCode">srsCode</a> | The EPSG code of the spatial reference system used to state the coordinate location of all geometry features in HTTP response. <br><br>Allowed values are:<br>**3005:** BC Albers<br>**4326:** WGS 84 (default)<br>**26907-26911:** NAD83/UTM Zones 7N through 11N<br>**32607-32611:** WGS84/UTM Zones 7N through 11N<br>**26707-26711:** NAD27/UTM Zones 7N through 11N
<a name="time">time</a> | Duration of the best route found (in seconds).
<a name="timeText">timeText</a> | Duration of the best route found in structured English (e.g., 1 hour and 15 minutes).
<a name="toPoints">toPoints</a> | A list of destination points in geographic coordinates (lon/lat). Commas are used to separate coordinates and points as in the following list of two points: -124.972951,49.715181,-123.139464,49.704015
<a name="truckRouteMultiplier">truckRouteMultiplier</a> | The truck route multiplier value is used to multiply the cost (friction factors) of using roads that are not truck routes.
<a name="version">version</a> | Software version of the BC Route Planner API.
<a name="visitOrder">visitOrder</a> | Represents the position in the optimal order each input point should appear in. For example, a visitOrder of [0,3,2,4,1] means input point 0 is output point 0, input point 1 is output point 3, input point 2 is output point 2, input point 3 is output point 4, and input point 4 is output point 1.
<a name="weight">weight</a> | The weight of the truck in metres.
<a name="width">width</a> | The width of the truck in metres.
